# Heartstopper-Gay-Rights
An example of bivariate relationships through the medium, “Heartstopper.”

The variables selected for analysis are the sexual identity of each character, the feelings of each character towards coming out, the reactions of those each character came out to, the number of people each character came out to, the change in mental health of each character as a result of coming out, and the number of times the mental health of each character is mentioned throughout the series. The methods used to collect the data are primarily observational, in that the data was collected through watching the series and recording the observations that have been noted. 

The first variable, sexual identity, was measured on a categorical scale of categories within the LGBTQIA+ community. These categories included lesbian, gay, bisexual, asexual, transgender, queer, or not mentioned. These variables are given a number one through seven in ascending order. This coding scheme was used to indicate each character fit into an exclusive category, ensuring that there is a complete lack of overlap among the categories.

The second variable, coming out, was measured on a categorical scale of categories that indicate the character’s feelings towards coming out. These categories included yes, no, unsure, or does not mention, each of which are noted in ascending order from one through four. This coding scheme indicates that each character fits in an exclusive category, which has no overlap with any other category listed. 

The third variable, reactions, was measured on a categorical scale including positive reaction, negative reaction, neutral reaction, or no reaction, in the event that the character did not come out. These categories were assigned in numerical order, ascending from one through four. This coding scheme was used to indicate the exclusivity of each category while assigning a more fluid and coherent scheme to the variable. 

The fourth variable, number of people told,  represents the amount of people each queer individual came out to. This variable was measured through observing the series and counting each person the queer individual came out to. The values in this variable follow the structure of a quantitative variable, in that they are not categorically organized and are not subjective, rather objective facts observed through the series. 

The fifth variable, change in mental health, represents the change in mental health after coming out, on behalf of the queer individual. This variable was measured through observing the series and indicating the category each individual’s mental health fell into. The categories included good mental health, bad mental health, or no change, each labeled in ascending order from one to three. This coding scheme was used to indicate the exclusivity of each category within the variable. 

The sixth variable, number of times mental health was mentioned, was a quantitative variable measured by the number of times the mental health of a character was mentioned throughout the series. This variable was measured through observing the series and counting each related conversation. The values in this variable follow the structure of a quantitative variable, in that they are not categorically organized and are not subjective, rather objective facts observed through the series. 

This project requires access to the series, “Heartstopper” from Netflix, in order to be able to properly observe and replicate this project. It also requires a complete lack of bias, and a clear understanding of objective definitions of labels within the queer community. 
